Orifhon: Hi Professor, I think we didn't cover Distributed Systems in lectures (as a separate topic), but it's included in final exam notes.

Paras Mukadam: you can skip multi-computers

Pijush: apprarently two quiz in two different name 

Pradip Adhikari: Professor, will you be able to provide the answers of the previous assignments?

Paras Mukadam: Ok, let's start from beginning. Everyone clear on file systems topics?

Khanh Le: yes

Subramanian Ramanathan: @ Orifhon , also Ethernet, Internet, Protocol was not part of the reading but is mentioned in exam notes

Paras Mukadam: @Pradip, yes right after this session

Akram Malkawe: Yes

Dhruba Adhikari: I was not able to login from the url provided in the site, sorry for delay professor

Dhruba Adhikari: Komal Asraf send me url, finally that worked

Paras Mukadam: ok

Paras Mukadam: so no questions on File Systems ... let's move to I/O

Khanh Le: yes, let move to IO

Paras Mukadam: I am referring to final exam notes in Sakai

Dhruba Adhikari: Ok

Paras Mukadam: understand different types of I/O

Paras Mukadam: DMA is also internesting

Paras Mukadam: @interesting

Paras Mukadam: skip clocks, device drivers, interruput handlers

Komal: Professor if interrupts is not coming then should we also skip precise and imprecise interrupts?

Paras Mukadam: Interrupts is there, just skip handlers section

Komal: it is mentioned in notes + Interrupts - SKIP, as already covered in 1st term

Khanh Le: I saw "Device Driver - INTRO", not it is skipped ?

Paras Mukadam: you can skip that

Khanh Le: ok

Arbindra Shrestha: Prof you mention few subtopic as INTRO that means just general knowledge is enough

Subramanian Ramanathan: @Komal, yes the same is in the notes, interrupts is skipped

Paras Mukadam: yes, like SCI

Akram Malkawe: Professor, nothing if the notes mentions pre-midterm material, can we skip that for the final?

Dipesh: Professor, Are the topics not marked as aything more important than "INTRO" and less important than "IMP"?

Komal: Professor i am confused here  a lot .... i guess we should discuss topic by topic

Paras Mukadam: @Dipesh - yes

Paras Mukadam: @Komal - clarify your doubts

Komal: Professor as mentioned in the notes interupts are not the part of the exam then we can also skip precide and imprecise interrupts. right?

Roya Yahyapour: I think the best way is that professor edit the notes please

Paras Mukadam: in this term we looked at I/O driven by interrupts, polling, etc. Concentrate on that. Interrupt details can be skipped

Nafiseh Abolmaali: I am agree with Roya, if we have one source , all doublt would be gone

Halieb: Prof do you mean we have to skip Interrupt handlers's in I/O Software Layer's

Altanshagai: same idea with Halib?

Arup: yes updated notes would eliminate confusion certainly

Dhruba Adhikari 2: How Important is SCI ? how much weight does it carries ?

Paras Mukadam: ok, please refer to updated exam notes. Hope it clears confusion

Halieb: great, thanks

Shailendra: Thank you Professor.

Rajendra: Thank you professor

Roya Yahyapour: Thank you professor

Ahmadreza Tabibi: Thank you Professor

Paras Mukadam: @Dhruba - SCI is basis of any course at MUM. It is imp ... and most easy to score points

saroj s khatri: Thanks prof

Nafiseh Abolmaali: thank you prof

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: if there is question like disscuss different types of I/O can u please give a hint how should we approach?

Roya Yahyapour: yes please

Dhruba Adhikari 2: Ok

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: like this can be answerd from different angle

Paras Mukadam: i usually won't ask vague questions

Mohamed Abdelrazik: in I/O skip that part on keyboards ?

Dhruba Adhikari 2: Are there programming or writing algorithm type questions ?

Bikram: prof. how important is time sharing and space sharing

Paras Mukadam: also, there is no single answer for description questions. 2 answers may get same points long as I am conviced that you have understood the topic

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: ok professor...

Paras Mukadam: @Mohamed, skim thru your notes. I hope this is not the first time you are reading about I/O :-)

Dhruba Adhikari 2: :D

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: still like regarding i/o there is discussion on chapter which discussed various ways of doing I/O

Paras Mukadam: On, on to deadlock

Miriam Nessim: what do you mean by "INTRO"  in exam notes?

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: and in I/O chapter like interrupt driven polling

Paras Mukadam: this is another important and practically relevant topic in OS

Paras Mukadam: "INTRO" is skim details just get the gist

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: so are these all can be included as different types of I/O?

Mohamed Abdelrazik: thanks :)

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: * chapter 1

Paras Mukadam: pay good attention to deadlocks, various detection & recovery options

Paras Mukadam: all clear on this topic?

James: I'd like to highlight Dhruba's question. Are we going to have coding and numerical kind of questions? It was a surprise to me in the midterm that we had around 20 marks question related to code and numericals.

Akram Malkawe: yes

Paras Mukadam: @James, yes we are in MS level course. So expect coding related questions. I do not test your language skills, but yes, pseudo code is a must

Altanshagai: Prof for example on which part of topic?

Subramanian Ramanathan: is the format going same as Midterm, like trueor false, brief notes and problem solving and programming?

Paras Mukadam: @Subramanian, yes it will be similar to midterm

Paras Mukadam: @Altanshagai, you may get coding/analytical on deadlocks, file systems

Lei Zhang: prof, is there any sample questions like you provided as midterm exam?

Paras Mukadam: on on Multi Processors, RPc is most imp topic

Subramanian Ramanathan: Thanks Professor

James: I agree. But we never had that kind of questions in the assignments. So I hadn't expected it. 

Bikram: How about scheduling, time sharing, space sharing and multicomputer scheduling, are these imp. topic for final?

Paras Mukadam: you can skim thru rest of the topics

Paras Mukadam: no

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: do we need to memorize figures? like related to structure of any systems?

Bikram: ok thanks, Distribted Sytems?

Dhruba Adhikari 2: Right James, I too agree on that

James: Prof, can you please suggest what we can expect for numerical calculations in the finals?

Paras Mukadam: no, if a figure is required for answering any question, it will be provided

Ferdous Ara Mostofa: thanks

Paras Mukadam: @James, refer to assignments

Paras Mukadam: ok lastly, Distributed Systems

Arbindra Shrestha: can you provide the sample related to coding/analytical on deadlocks, file systems?

Halieb: Prof, what about Memmory Virtualization, I/O Virtualization and Appliances

Khanh Le: no memory or I/O virtulization I think

Paras Mukadam: @Halieb . skim thru details, but understand in general. Refer to ur notes

Paras Mukadam: @Khanh, yes

Subramanian Ramanathan: on middleware, do we need to know about all the types of middleware, like document based, file system based, co-ordination based, object based?

Paras Mukadam: yes, good to understand their basics

Paras Mukadam: u should be able to write 1 sentence about each

Bikram: ok thanks

Paras Mukadam: Ok, that concludes it

Paras Mukadam: if anyone has more doubt, post on forums, or send me directmessage

Rajendra: Thank you professor

Khanh Le: thank you professor

Paras Mukadam: as usual, will post transcript on sakao

Prabal: Thank You Professor!

Prakriti Khanal: Thank you professor

Ahmadreza Tabibi: Thank you Prof

Ahmad Alzamer: thanks

Lincoln Datta: Thank you Professor

Miriam Nessim: Thank you

Halieb: Thanks Prof

Akram Malkawe: Thank you Professor
